LOCAL-DEV-SETUP.md, before:

# Local Development Setup Guide

This guide ensures your local development environment matches CI exactly, preventing "works locally but fails in CI" issues.

## 🎯 Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
make install

# 2. Install pre-commit hooks (recommended)
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install

# 3. Before pushing, run CI checks locally
make ci-local
```

## 📋 Prerequisites

**Exact versions required:**
- Python 3.11 (not 3.10, not 3.12)
- Node.js 20 (not 19, not 21)
- Docker & Docker Compose

**Verify versions:**
```bash
python3 --version  # Should show 3.11.x
node --version     # Should show v20.x.x
```

## 🔧 Setup Steps

### 1. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv

# Activate (Linux/Mac)
source venv/bin/activate

# Activate (Windows)
venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies (exact versions from requirements.txt)
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Key tools installed:**
- `ruff==0.14.6` - Linter (exact version)
- `black==23.12.1` - Formatter
- `pytest==7.4.3` - Test framework

### 2. Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend

# Install dependencies (uses package-lock.json for exact versions)
npm ci
```

**Note:** Always use `npm ci` (not `npm install`) to ensure exact versions match CI.

### 3. Pre-commit Hooks (Recommended)

Pre-commit hooks automatically run linters before each commit:

```bash
# Install pre-commit
pip install pre-commit

# Install hooks
pre-commit install

# Test hooks
pre-commit run --all-files
```

**What it does:**
- Runs Ruff and Black on Python files
- Runs ESLint on JavaScript files
- Checks for trailing whitespace, YAML/JSON validity
- Prevents committing code that would fail CI

## ✅ Before Committing

**Always run this before pushing:**

```bash
make ci-local
```

This runs:
1. Version checks
2. Backend linting (Ruff)
3. Backend formatting check (Black)
4. Backend tests
5. Frontend linting (ESLint)
6. Frontend formatting check (Prettier)
7. Frontend tests

**If any check fails, fix it locally before pushing!**

## 🛠️ Common Commands

### Using Makefile (Recommended)

```bash
make help              # Show all available commands
make install           # Install all dependencies
make lint              # Run all linters
make format            # Format all code
make test              # Run all tests
make ci-local          # Run full CI simulation
make check-versions    # Verify tool versions match CI
```

### Manual Commands

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate

# Lint
ruff check .

# Format
black .
ruff format .

# Test
pytest
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend

# Lint
npm run lint

# Format
npm run format

# Test
npm test
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### "Tool version mismatch" errors

**Problem:** Local tool version doesn't match CI.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Backend - reinstall exact versions
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
pip install --force-reinstall -r requirements.txt

# Frontend - reinstall exact versions
cd frontend
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm ci
```

### "Works locally but fails in CI"

**Common causes:**
1. Different tool versions
2. Different Python/Node versions
3. Uncommitted formatting changes
4. Missing dependencies

**Solution:**
```bash
# Run local CI simulation
make ci-local

# If it passes locally but fails in CI, check:
make check-versions  # Verify versions match
git status           # Check for uncommitted changes
```

### Pre-commit hooks not running

```bash
# Reinstall hooks
pre-commit install

# Run manually
pre-commit run --all-files

# Skip hooks (not recommended)
git commit --no-verify
```

## 📝 Best Practices

1. **Always use exact versions** - Don't use `>=` or `~` in requirements.txt
2. **Run `make ci-local` before pushing** - Catch issues early
3. **Use pre-commit hooks** - Automatic checks before commit
4. **Use `npm ci` not `npm install`** - Ensures exact versions
5. **Commit `package-lock.json`** - Already done ✓
6. **Keep requirements.txt pinned** - Exact versions only

## 🎓 Workflow

**Recommended daily workflow:**

```bash
# Morning: Pull latest changes
git pull

# Before coding: Ensure environment is set up
make check-versions

# While coding: Let pre-commit hooks catch issues automatically

# Before committing: Run full CI check
make ci-local

# If all passes: Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "your message"
git push
```

## 🔗 Related Files

- `Makefile` - Common commands
- `.pre-commit-config.yaml` - Pre-commit hooks configuration
- `scripts/test-local.sh` - Local CI simulation script
- `backend/requirements.txt` - Python dependencies (exact versions)
- `frontend/package-lock.json` - JavaScript dependencies (exact versions)

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [Pre-commit documentation](https://pre-commit.com/)
- [Ruff documentation](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/)
- [Black documentation](https://black.readthedocs.io/)
- [ESLint documentation](https://eslint.org/)

Commit message:

docs: add note about Node 20 requirement for Prettier formatting
- Update Makefile to handle Node version gracefully
- Add warning in CI workflow about formatting requirements
- Document Node 20 requirement in LOCAL-DEV-SETUP.md
- Prettier requires Node 14+, but we require Node 20 for CI consistency

LOCAL-DEV-SETUP.md, after:

# Local Development Setup Guide

This guide ensures your local development environment matches CI exactly, preventing "works locally but fails in CI" issues.

## 🎯 Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
make install

# 2. Install pre-commit hooks (recommended)
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install

# 3. Before pushing, run CI checks locally
make ci-local
```

## 📋 Prerequisites

**Exact versions required:**
- Python 3.11 (not 3.10, not 3.12)
- Node.js 20 (not 19, not 21) - **Required for Prettier formatting**
- Docker & Docker Compose

**Verify versions:**
```bash
python3 --version  # Should show 3.11.x
node --version     # Should show v20.x.x
```

**Important:** Prettier requires Node.js 14+, but we require Node 20 for consistency with CI. If your local Node version is older, formatting will fail locally but CI will catch it. Upgrade to Node 20 to format locally.

## 🔧 Setup Steps

### 1. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv

# Activate (Linux/Mac)
source venv/bin/activate

# Activate (Windows)
venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies (exact versions from requirements.txt)
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Key tools installed:**
- `ruff==0.14.6` - Linter (exact version)
- `black==23.12.1` - Formatter
- `pytest==7.4.3` - Test framework

### 2. Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend

# Install dependencies (uses package-lock.json for exact versions)
npm ci
```

**Note:** Always use `npm ci` (not `npm install`) to ensure exact versions match CI.

### 3. Pre-commit Hooks (Recommended)

Pre-commit hooks automatically run linters before each commit:

```bash
# Install pre-commit
pip install pre-commit

# Install hooks
pre-commit install

# Test hooks
pre-commit run --all-files
```

**What it does:**
- Runs Ruff and Black on Python files
- Runs ESLint on JavaScript files
- Checks for trailing whitespace, YAML/JSON validity
- Prevents committing code that would fail CI

## ✅ Before Committing

**Always run this before pushing:**

```bash
make ci-local
```

This runs:
1. Version checks
2. Backend linting (Ruff)
3. Backend formatting check (Black)
4. Backend tests
5. Frontend linting (ESLint)
6. Frontend formatting check (Prettier)
7. Frontend tests

**If any check fails, fix it locally before pushing!**

## 🛠️ Common Commands

### Using Makefile (Recommended)

```bash
make help              # Show all available commands
make install           # Install all dependencies
make lint              # Run all linters
make format            # Format all code
make test              # Run all tests
make ci-local          # Run full CI simulation
make check-versions    # Verify tool versions match CI
```

### Manual Commands

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate

# Lint
ruff check .

# Format
black .
ruff format .

# Test
pytest
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend

# Lint
npm run lint

# Format
npm run format

# Test
npm test
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### "Tool version mismatch" errors

**Problem:** Local tool version doesn't match CI.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Backend - reinstall exact versions
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
pip install --force-reinstall -r requirements.txt

# Frontend - reinstall exact versions
cd frontend
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm ci
```

### "Works locally but fails in CI"

**Common causes:**
1. Different tool versions
2. Different Python/Node versions
3. Uncommitted formatting changes
4. Missing dependencies

**Solution:**
```bash
# Run local CI simulation
make ci-local

# If it passes locally but fails in CI, check:
make check-versions  # Verify versions match
git status           # Check for uncommitted changes
```

### Pre-commit hooks not running

```bash
# Reinstall hooks
pre-commit install

# Run manually
pre-commit run --all-files

# Skip hooks (not recommended)
git commit --no-verify
```

## 📝 Best Practices

1. **Always use exact versions** - Don't use `>=` or `~` in requirements.txt
2. **Run `make ci-local` before pushing** - Catch issues early
3. **Use pre-commit hooks** - Automatic checks before commit
4. **Use `npm ci` not `npm install`** - Ensures exact versions
5. **Commit `package-lock.json`** - Already done ✓
6. **Keep requirements.txt pinned** - Exact versions only

## 🎓 Workflow

**Recommended daily workflow:**

```bash
# Morning: Pull latest changes
git pull

# Before coding: Ensure environment is set up
make check-versions

# While coding: Let pre-commit hooks catch issues automatically

# Before committing: Run full CI check
make ci-local

# If all passes: Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "your message"
git push
```

## 🔗 Related Files

- `Makefile` - Common commands
- `.pre-commit-config.yaml` - Pre-commit hooks configuration
- `scripts/test-local.sh` - Local CI simulation script
- `backend/requirements.txt` - Python dependencies (exact versions)
- `frontend/package-lock.json` - JavaScript dependencies (exact versions)

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [Pre-commit documentation](https://pre-commit.com/)
- [Ruff documentation](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/)
- [Black documentation](https://black.readthedocs.io/)
- [ESLint documentation](https://eslint.org/)
