dhall/cache/binaries/README.md, before:

# Dhall Binaries Cache

This directory contains cached Dhall binaries (`dhall` and `dhall-to-json`) as a fallback when GitHub releases are unavailable.

## Purpose

- **Resilience**: Provides a stable fallback if GitHub releases are down or unreachable
- **Speed**: GitHub Actions cache speeds up subsequent runs
- **Reliability**: Ensures CI/CD pipelines continue working even during external outages

## How It Works

1. **Primary**: Download from GitHub releases (always latest)
2. **Fallback 1**: Use GitHub Actions cache (fast, persists across runs, auto-managed by GitHub)
3. **Fallback 2**: Use repository cache (stable, pre-populated, committed binaries)

**Important**: The repository cache is NOT updated automatically. It's a stable fallback that you manually update when needed.

## Updating the Cache

To update the cached binaries to a new version:

```bash
# Update the version in scripts/install-dhall-with-fallback.sh
# Then run:
bash scripts/populate-dhall-binaries-cache.sh

# Commit the updated binaries:
git add dhall/cache/binaries/
git commit -m "chore: Update Dhall binaries cache to vX.Y.Z"
```

## Current Version

- **Dhall**: 1.41.2
- **Last Updated**: See git history

## Files

- `dhall` - Dhall interpreter binary
- `dhall-to-json` - Dhall to JSON converter binary

These binaries are Linux x86_64 executables and are automatically used by the installation script when GitHub releases are unavailable.

Commit message:

feat(scripts): Add script to populate Dhall binaries cache from official sources
- Created populate-dhall-binaries-cache.sh to download binaries from official GitHub releases
- References official documentation: https://docs.dhall-lang.org/
- Uses official GitHub releases: https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell/releases
- Downloads dhall and dhall-to-json binaries for Linux x86_64
- Updated README with official source links and instructions
- Updated .gitignore to allow binaries but ignore temp files

The script downloads from the same official sources referenced in the documentation:
- Official installation guide points to GitHub releases
- Script uses the exact URLs from the official release page
- Provides fallback when GitHub releases are unavailable

Usage:
  bash scripts/populate-dhall-binaries-cache.sh

This will download and cache the binaries for use as a fallback in CI/CD.

dhall/cache/binaries/README.md, after:

# Dhall Binaries Cache

This directory contains cached Dhall binaries (`dhall` and `dhall-to-json`) as a fallback when GitHub releases are unavailable.

## Official Sources

- **Documentation**: https://docs.dhall-lang.org/
- **Installation Guide**: https://docs.dhall-lang.org/tutorials/Getting-started_Generate-JSON-or-YAML.html#installation
- **GitHub Releases**: https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell/releases
- **Repository**: https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell

## Purpose

- **Resilience**: Provides a stable fallback if GitHub releases are down or unreachable
- **Speed**: GitHub Actions cache speeds up subsequent runs
- **Reliability**: Ensures CI/CD pipelines continue working even during external outages

## How It Works

1. **Primary**: Download from GitHub releases (always latest, official source)
2. **Fallback 1**: Use GitHub Actions cache (fast, persists across runs, auto-managed by GitHub)
3. **Fallback 2**: Use repository cache (stable, pre-populated, committed binaries)

**Important**: The repository cache is NOT updated automatically. It's a stable fallback that you manually update when needed.

## Updating the Cache

To update the cached binaries to a new version:

```bash
# 1. Check the latest version on GitHub releases:
#    https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell/releases

# 2. Update the version in scripts/install-dhall-with-fallback.sh
#    (if different from current)

# 3. Run the populate script (requires Linux/WSL):
bash scripts/populate-dhall-binaries-cache.sh

# 4. Commit the updated binaries:
git add dhall/cache/binaries/{dhall,dhall-to-json}
git commit -m "chore: Update Dhall binaries cache to vX.Y.Z"
```

The populate script downloads binaries directly from the official GitHub releases, matching the official installation documentation.

## Current Version

- **Dhall**: 1.41.2
- **Source**: Official GitHub releases (dhall-lang/dhall-haskell)
- **Last Updated**: See git history

## Files

- `dhall` - Dhall interpreter binary (Linux x86_64)
- `dhall-to-json` - Dhall to JSON converter binary (Linux x86_64)

These binaries are Linux x86_64 executables downloaded from the official GitHub releases and are automatically used by the installation script when GitHub releases are unavailable.
